The hydrology at this Project is passively managed. The Project (25 acres of 
restored wetland) is an off-channel wetland consisting of two wetland pools that
are connected to one another by a channel. The North Pool exchanges water with 
Spring Creek, while the South Pool exchanges water with the Great Miami River. 
A hydrologic event at this Project is operationally defined as an event in which
the Great Miami River and Spring Creek flood the wetland pools, possible at 
discharges of at least 5,229 cubic feet per second (cfs) and 203 cfs, 
respectively. 

Springcreek Confluence Off-Channel Wetlands consists of permanently flooded 
floodplains experiencing seasonal flooding events. The North Pool receives 
flows from Spring Creek when stream flow reaches 203 cubic feet per second 
(cfs) and the South Pool receives flows from the Great Miami River when stream 
flow reaches 5,229 cfs. Nutrient concentrations were typically lower in the 
wetland than the Great Miami River and Spring Creek, indicative of nutrient 
filtration. There are times of the year where concentrations inside the 
Springcreek Pool are higher than concentrations in Spring Creek, but these 
instances only occur during low flow when there is little to no connectivity
between the creek and pool. 

Overall, there is little to no concentration difference for all nutrients
between Great Miami River Upstream and Downstream (Figure 228, Figure 229, 
Figure 230, Figure 231). This may in part be due to the small proportion of 
total river flow that the Project captures. In Water Year 2024, a total of 
613 billion L of water flowed through the Great Miami River, and 17 billion L 
flowed through Spring Creek at the wetland inflow notches. Of these total flows,
the wetland pools were able to capture 204 million L from the Great Miami River 
(0.03%) and 35 million L from Spring Creek (0.21%). 

During flow events in which the river or creek flooded into the wetland, the 
pool volumes also spike (Figure 226, Figure 227). There are also times of the
year when the creek flows and pool volumes rise, but there is no offloading 
event. This rising relationship between the river, creek, and pools may suggest 
subsurface flow, either from the river or creek or groundwater from a high-water
table. 
Groundwater wells would be needed at the Project to determine if the water input
is from subsurface flow from the Great Miami River or groundwater. 
